STATE OF
        NORTH
                CAROLINA
                                                          Department of The
                                                        Secretary of State


To all whom these presents shall come, Greeting:
        I, Rufus L. Edmisten, Secretary of State of the State
of North Carolina, do hereby certify the following and
hereto attached  (  10  sheets) to be a true copy of


ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION
OF
TRAILSIDE COMMONS HOMEOWNER'S ASSOCIATION, INC.


and the probates thereon, the original of which was filled
in this office on the 16th day of May, 1990
after having been found to conform to law.


In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand
and affixed my official seal.


Done in Office, at Raleigh, this 16th  day
of May in the year of our Lord 1990.



________________
Prepared by and return to:
William W. Bunch, III
FAISON & BROWN
4900 Falls of Neuse Road, Suite 210
Raleigh, North Carolina 27609


ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION
OF
TRAILSIDE COMMONS HOMEOWNER'S ASSOCIATION, INC.


        The undersigned, being of the age of eighteen years or more, does hereby make and acknowledge these Articles of Incorporation for the purpose of forming a non-profit corporation under and by virtue of the laws of the State of North Carolina.


ARTICLE I


NAME


        The name of the corporation is TRAILSIDE COMMONS HOMEOWNER'S ASSOCIATION, INC., hereafter called the "Association".


ARTICLE II


DURATION


        The Association's period of duration shall be concurrent with the period during which that certain Declaration of Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions for Trailside Commons recorded in the Wake County Registry (hereinafter referred to as the "Declaration") shall affect or restrict the use of the Properties described therein as more specifically set forth on Exhibit A hereto, which is incorporated herein by this reference and any additions thereto as may hereafter be -brought within the jurisdiction of the Association or until the Association shall be sooner terminated pursuant to these Articles. All definitions set forth in Article I of the Declaration shall have the same meanings as set forth therein in these Articles of Incorporation.


ARTICLE III


REGISTERED OFFICE AND AGENT


        The address of the initial registered office of the Association is 600 Tucker street, Raleigh, Wake County, North Carolina 27603. The name of the initial registered agent at that address is Floyd T. Carter.


ARTICLE IV


PURPOSE AND POWERS OF THE ASSOCIATION


        This Association does not contemplate pecuniary gain or profit to the Members thereof, and the specific purposes for which it is formed are to provide for maintenance, management, preservation and architectural control of the Lots and Common Area within that certain tract of property described on Exhibit A hereto, as the same may be amended and expanded from time to time, to which reference is made for a more complete description, and to promote the health, safety and welfare of the Owners within the above described property and any additions thereto as may hereafter be made subject to the Declaration, and to:
        (a) exercise all of the powers and privileges and to perform all of the duties and obligations of the Association as set forth in that certain Declaration and as the same may be amended from time to time as therein provided;
        (b) fix, levy, collect and enforce payment by any lawful means, all charges or assessments pursuant to the terms of the Declaration; to pay all expenses in connection therewith and all office and other expenses incident to the conduct of the business of the Association, including all licenses, taxes or governmental charges levied or imposed against the property of the Association;
        (c) acquire (by gift, purchase or otherwise), own hold, improve, build upon operate, maintain, convey, sell, lease, transfer, dedicate for public use or otherwise dispose of real or personal property in connection with the affairs of the Association, not inconsistent with the laws and ordinances of the City of Raleigh;
        (d) borrow money and, with the assent of two-thirds (2/3) of each class of Members, mortgage, pledge, deed in trust, or hypothecate any or all of its real or personal property as security for money borrowed or debts incurred, which mortgage, pledge, deed of trust or hypothecation if the security is Common Area, shall be subject to the rights and easements of the Owners;
        (e) dedicate, sell or transfer all or any part of the Common Area to any public agency, authority, or utility for such purposes and subject to such conditions as may be agreed to by the Members, but no such dedication or transfer shall be effective unless an  instrument has been signed by two-thirds (2/3) of each class of Members, agreeing to such dedication,  sale or transfer;
        (f) participate in mergers and consolidations with other nonprofit corporations organized for the same purposes, or annex additional Properties and Common Area I provided that any such merger, consolidation or annexation shall be effected as provided in the Declaration; and,
        (g) have and to exercise any and all powers, rights and privileges which a corporation organized under the Non-Profit Corporation Act of the state of North Carolina, G.S. Section 55A-l, et. seq., by law may now or hereafter have or exercise. The powers of the Association shall be subject to and shall be exercised in accordance with the provisions of the Declaration.


ARTICLE V


NON-PROFIT ASSOCIATION


        No part of the net earnings of the Association shall inure to the benefit of any officer, director or Member of the Association. All funds and property acquired by the Association and the proceeds therefrom shall be held only for the benefit of the Members of the Association in accordance with the provisions of the Declaration.


ARTICLE VI


MEMBERSHIP


        Every person or entity who is a record Owner of a fee or undivided fee interest in any Lot which is subject by covenants of record to assessment by the Association, including sellers by installment contracts, shall be a Member of the Association. The foregoing is not intended to include persons or entities who hold an interest in any Lot merely as security for the performance of an obligation. Membership shall be appurtenant to and may not be separated from ownership of an Lot which is subject to assessment by the Association.


ARTICLE VII


VOTING RIGHTS


        The Association shall have two classes of voting membership:
        Class A. Class A Members shall be all Owners, with the exception of the Declarant, and shall be entitled to one vote for each Lot owned. When more than one person holds an interest in any Lot, all such persons shall be Members. The vote for such Lot shall be exercised as they determine, but in no event shall more than one vote or a fractional vote be cast with respect to any Lot.
        Class B. The Class B Member(s) shall be the Declarant (as defined in the Declaration), and shall be entitled to three (3) votes for each Lot owned. The Class B Membership shall cease and be converted to Class A membership on the happening of either of the following events, whichever occurs earlier:
        (a) when the total votes outstanding in the Class A membership equal the total votes outstanding in the Class B membership, but in no event shall such Class B membership extend beyond the time stated in subparagraph (b) of this Section; or
        (b) on November 1, 1997.


ARTICLE VIII


BOARD OF DIRECTORS


        Initially, the affairs of this Association shall be managed by a Board of three (3) directors and thereafter, from the initial annual meeting of the Association forward, the Board shall consist of five (5) directors, who need not be Members of the Association. The number of directors may be changed by amendment of the Bylaws of the Association. The names and addresses of the persons who are to act in the capacity of the initial directors until the selection of their successors at the first meeting of the Association are:


DIRECTOR                                        ADDRESS


Floyd T. Carter                                600 Tucker Street
                                                Raleigh, N.C. 27603
Sarah Lynn Wood                                600 Tucker Street
                                                Raleigh, N.C. 27603
Jessie Copeland                                600 Tucker Street
                                                Raleigh, N.C. 27603


        At the first annual meeting the Members shall elect a director for a term of one year, two directors for a term of two years and two directors for a term of three years; and at each annual meeting thereafter the Members shall elect one or two directors, as the case may be, for a term of three years.


ARTICLE IX


DISSOLUTION


        The Association may be dissolved with the assent given in writing and signed by not less than two-thirds (2/3) of each class of Members. Upon dissolution of the Association, other than incident to a merger or consolidation, the assets of the Association shall first be offered to the public and thereafter if such offer is not accepted, the assets of the Association shall be dedicated to an appropriate public agency to be used for purposes similar to those for which this Association was created. In the event that such dedication is refused acceptance, such assets shall be granted, conveyed and assigned to any nonprofit corporation, association, trust or other organization to be devoted to such similar purposes.


ARTICLE X


AMENDMENTS


        Amendment of these Articles shall require the assent of seventy-five percent (75%) of each class of membership entitled to vote thereon.


ARTICLE XI


FHA/VA/FNMA APPROVAL


        As long as there is a Class B membership, the following actions will require the prior approval of the Federal Housing Authority, Veterans Administration or Federal National Mortgage Association: annexation of additional properties; mergers and consolidations; deeding in trust the Common Area; dedication of Common Area; and, dissolution and amendment of these Articles.
________________


ARTICLE XII


INCORPORATOR


        The name and address of the incorporator of the Association is: William W. Bunch, III, suite 210, N.C. Federal Building, 4900 Falls of Neuse Road, Raleigh, Wake County, North Carolina 27609.
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have set my hand and seal this the 15th day of May, 1990.








________________
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
COUNTY OF WAKE


        THIS IS TO CERTIFY that on the 15th  day of May 1988(90), before me, a Notary Public, personally appeared William W. Bunch, III, who I know to be the person named in and who executed the foregoing Articles of Incorporation of Trailside Commons Homeowner's Association, Inc., a corporation not for profit, and I have first made known to him the contents thereof, he did acknowledge that he signed and delivered the same as his voluntary act and deed for the uses and purposes therein expressed.


        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and notorial seal this the 15th day of May, 1990.


  





My commission expires:  12-15-91
  

































________________
Exhibit A


        BEING ALL of that certain property located in the City of Raleigh, Wake County, North Carolina, said property being more particularly described as follows:


        BEGINNING at a new iron pipe located in the eastern 80-foot right of way of Trailwood Drive, said new iron pipe being the northwesternmost corner of Lot 1 of the property described herein as shown on the hereinafter referenced recorded plat; thence leaving said point of BEGINNING and running South 64 degrees 43 minutes 26 seconds East 235.53 feet to a new iron pipe; thence running South 33 degrees 29 minutes 39 seconds West 178.92 feet to a new iron pipe; thence running North 55 degrees 16 minutes 11 seconds West 29.96 feet to a new iron pipe; thence running South 34 degrees 43 minutes 40 seconds West 247.36 feet to a new iron pipe: thence running in a southwesterly direction along a curve to the right having a radius of 210.44 feet and a length of 183.95 feet to a new iron pipe; thence running North 04 degrees 52 minutes 37 seconds West 78.06 feet to a new iron pipe; thence running North 26 degrees 28 minutes 04 seconds East 146.68 feet to a new iron pipe; thence running North 88 degrees 32 minutes 29 seconds West 11.03 feet to a new iron pipe; thence running with the eastern 80-foot right of way of Trailwood Drive North 26 degrees 28 minutes 04 seconds East 353.39 feet to the point and place of BEGINNING and being all of that certain 2.13 acre tract of land and being all of Trailside Commons as shown on plat of survey recorded in Book of Maps 1990, Page 113, Wake County Registry.


A:H6.0


________________
Exhibit B


        BEING ALL of that certain property located in the City of Raleigh, Wake county, North Carolina, said property being more particularly described as follows:


        BEING ALL of Trailside Commons as shown on plat recorded in Book of Maps 1990, Page 113, Wake County Registry, specifically including, but not limited to, all areas shown thereon as Travis Drive and open space, LESS AND EXCEPT Lots 1 through 12, inclusive, as shown on plat of survey recorded in Book of Maps 1990, Page 113, Wake County Registry, reference being made to said recorded plat for a more accurate description of the metes, bounds, courses and distances of the Lots excluded herefrom.


A:H6.1